# [About ABET](https://www.abet.org/about-abet/)

Careers at ABET
Please visit our
Careers page
to view open positions.

At ABET, our approach, the standards we set and the quality we guarantee, inspires confidence in those who aim to build a better world — one that is safer, more efficient, more comfortable and more sustainable.
We accredit college and university programs in the disciplines of applied and natural science, computing, engineering and engineering technology at the associate, bachelor’s and master’s degree levels.
Did you know?
ABET originally stood for the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, but since 2005, we have operated exclusively under the acronym to reflect the broader range of disciplines we assure for quality.
Read more about ABET’s history
.
With ABET accreditation, students, employers and the society we serve can be confident that a program meets the quality standards that produce graduates prepared to enter a global workforce.
We began as the educational standard against which professional engineers in the United States were held for licensure. Today, after more than 80 years, our standards continue to play this fundamental role and have become the basis of quality for STEM disciplines all over the world.
Developed by technical professionals from ABET’s member societies, our criteria focus on what students experience and learn. Sought worldwide, ABET’s voluntary peer-review process is highly respected because it adds critical value to academic programs in the technical disciplines, where quality, precision and safety are of the utmost importance.
Our more than 2,200 experts come from industry, academia and government. They give their time and effort supporting quality assurance activities around the world by serving as Program Evaluators, commissioners, board members and advisors.
ABET is a nonprofit, non-governmental organization with
ISO 9001:2015 certification
.
Media Inquiries
– Contact our Communications Department at
comms@abet.org
.

We currently accredit 4,773 programs at 930 colleges and universities in 42 countries.

## [Accreditation Outside the U.S.](https://www.abet.org/accreditation/get-accredited/accreditation-outside-the-u-s/)

ABET is engaged globally through four primary means: 1) accreditation of academic programs; 2) mutual recognition of accreditation organizations; 3) Memoranda of Understanding with accreditation/quality assurance organizations; and 4) engagement in global STEM education organizations.
We take an active role in the global quality assurance process for technical education programs through numerous agreements with organizations worldwide. These include Mutual Recognition Agreements (MRAs) and Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs). A list of our MRA global partners can be found
here
and
here
. A list of our MOU global partners can be found
here
.
We respect the autonomy of each nation’s higher education quality assurance organization. While ABET accredits programs outside of the US, we also encourage all academic programs located in these countries and regions to pursue accreditation by the appropriate MRA or MOU partner. We will conduct an accreditation review in the MRA/MOU country/region only if our partner does not object.
In addition, programs located outside of the U.S. must have each appropriate education authority, recognition or accreditation agency complete a
Request for Acknowledgement form
to be submitted with the formal Request for Evaluation. We will conduct an accreditation review outside the U.S. only in cases where there is no objection from all applicable education authorities or recognition/accreditation agencies in that program’s country or region.
The ABET accreditation process for programs located outside of the U.S.
is identical to the accreditation process for programs within the U.S.

For detail on accreditation costs, see the
Fee Schedule for programs outside the U.S.
We encourage you to pay close attention to these fees in particular:
Reimbursement of the ABET team’s actual travel expenses – Travel expenses include but are not limited to roundtrip airfare, lodging, transportation, meals, international calls, visa costs and travel insurance (both medical and security). Please note that ABET permits its volunteers to travel business class when international flights are equal to or greater than seven hours in total (layovers included).
Additional support for ensuring safety and security of the ABET team – This may include but is not limited to airport pick-up, escort and daily ground transportation between each of the visit locations (i.e. campuses, hotel and airport).
Expect to be invoiced for reimbursement of actual travel expenses generated by the ABET team after conclusion of the scheduled on-site visit.
Institutions that submit official Requests for Evaluation (RFEs) are responsible for complying with the ABET payment requirements.

A program seeking accreditation in a country where English is not the native language must provide its program name both in English and in the native language. English translation of a program name should be based on the technical content, not the literal translation of the program name, so that ABET can designate the appropriate accreditation commission(s) and determine the applicable criteria.
Official transcripts must be provided in English or come with a certified/official English translation.
The
self-study report
and other documents provided to the review team must be in English.
Programs must be able to prepare for and receive a visiting review team conducting activities in English. All visit activities will be conducted in English.

Learn More
If you have questions about accreditation for programs outside the U.S., please contact our
Accreditation Department
.